## Dynamic Data

### What is it?
Dynamic data is a portable class library which brings the power of reactive (rx) to collections.  

A collection which mutates can have adds, updates and removes (plus moves and re-evaluates but more about that another time). Out of the box rx does nothing to manage any changes in a collection which is why Dynamic Data exists.  In Dynamic Data collection changes are notified via an observable change set which is the heart of the system.  An operator receives these notifications and then applies some logic and subsequently provides it's own notifications. In this way operators can be chained together to apply powerful and often very complicated operations with some very simple fluent code.

The benefit of at least 40 operators which are borne from pragmatic experience is that the management of in-memory data becomes easy and it is no exaggeration to say it can save thousands of lines of code by abstracting complicated and often repetitive operations.

### Why is the first Nuget release version 3?
Even before rx existed I had implemented a similar concept using old fashioned events but the code was very ugly and my implementation full of race conditions so it never existed outside of my own private sphere. My second attempt was a similar implementation to the first but using rx when it first came out. This also failed as my understanding of rx was flawed and limited and my design forced consumers to implement interfaces.  Then finally I got my design head on and in 2011-ish I started writing what has become dynamic data. No inheritance, no interfaces, just the ability to plug in and use it as you please.  All along I meant to open source it but having so utterly failed on my first 2 attempts I decided to wait. The wait lasted longer than I expected and end up taking over 2 years but the benefit is it has been trialled for 2 years on a very busy high volume low latency trading system which has seriously complicated data management. And what's more that system has gathered a load of attention for how slick and cool and reliable it is both from the user and IT point of view. So I present this library with the confidence of it being tried, tested, optimised and mature. I hope it can make your life easier like it has done for me.
